Fast DDS Discovery Server Tutorial (#915)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Discovery-Server/Discovery-Server.rst

Now, if one of these servers fails, there would still be discovery communication between nodes.

Backup Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*ROS 2 Discovery Server* allows to easily build a server with a **backup** functionality.
This allows the server to retake the last state it saved in case of a shutdown.

.. image:: figures/ds_backup_example.svg
    :align: center

In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over a backup server.

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811 -b

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

Several backup files are created in the path the server has run.
Two ``SQLite`` files and two ``json`` files that contains the information required to
raise a new server in case of failure, avoiding the whole discovery process to happen again and
without losing information.

Discovery partitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The **Discovery Server** communication could be used with different servers to split in virtual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Communication with discovery servers can be split to create virtual
```

> partitions the discovery info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partitions in the discovery information.
```

> This means that two endpoints only would know each other if there is a server or a server network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that two endpoints will only know about each other if there is a shared discovery server or a network of discovery servers
```

between them.

> We are going to execute an example with two different independent servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to execute an example with two independent servers.
```

> The following image shows a schema of the architecture desired:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following figure shows the architecture.
```

.. image:: figures/ds_partition_example.svg
    :align: center

With this schema *Listener 1* will be connected to *Talker 1* and *Talker 2*, as they
share *Server 1*.
*Listener 2* will connect with *Talker 1* as they share *Server 2*.
But *Listener 2* will not hear the messages from *Talker 2* because they do not

> share any server or servers' network that connect them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
share any discovery servers, including indirectly via connections between redundant discovery servers.
```

> Run the first server listening in localhost in default port 11811.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the first server listening on localhost with the default port of 11811.
```

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811

> In another terminal run the second server listening in localhost in port another port, in this case 11888.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In another terminal run the second server listening on localhost using another port, in this case port 11888.
```

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 1 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11888

> Now, run each node in a different terminal. Use the *environment variable* ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` to decide which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, run each node in a different terminal. Use the environment variable ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` to decide which
```

server they are connected to. Be aware that the `ids must match
<https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/v2.1.0/fastdds/env_vars/env_vars.html>`__.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_2

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER=";127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_2

> We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving double messages, while *Listener 2* is in a different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving messages from both talker nodes, while *Listener 2* is in a different
```

> partition from *Talker 2* and so it does not listen to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partition from *Talker 2* and so does not receive messages from it.
```

.. note::

>     Once two endpoints know each other, they do not need the server network between them to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Once two endpoints (ROS nodes) have discovered each other, they do not need the discovery server network between them to
```

>     listen to each other messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    listen to each other's messages.
```

> Compare Discovery Server with Simple Discovery
> -----------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compare the Discovery Server with the Simple Discovery Protocol
----------------------------------------------------------------
```

> In order to compare the ROS2 execution using *Simple Discovery* or *Discovery Service*, two scripts that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to compare executing nodes using the Simple Discovery Protocol (the default DDS mechanism for distributed discovery) or the discovery service, two scripts that
```

execute a talker and many listeners and analyze the network traffic during this time are provided.
For this experiment, ``tshark`` is required to be installed on your system.
The configuration file is mandatory in order to avoid using intraprocess mode.

.. note::

>     These scripts require a Discovery Server clousure feature that is only available from versions newer than the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These scripts require a discovery server closure feature that is only available from versions newer than the
```

>     one used in ROS 2 Foxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    version provided in ROS 2 Foxy.
```

    In order to use this functionality, compile ROS 2 with Fast DDS v2.1.0 or higher.

> These scripts' functionalities are references for advance purpose and their study is left to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These scripts' features are references for advanced purposes and their study is left to the user.
```

* :download:`bash network traffic generator <scripts/generate_discovery_packages.bash>`

* :download:`python3 graph generator <scripts/discovery_packets.py>`

* :download:`XML configuration <scripts/no_intraprocess_configuration.xml>`

> Run the bash script with the *setup* path to source ROS2 as argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the bash script with the path a `setup.bash` file to source ROS 2 as an argument.
```

This will generate the traffic trace for simple discovery.

> Executing the same script with second argument ``SERVER``, it will generates the trace for service discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the same script with second argument ``SERVER``. It will generate the trace for using the discovery server.
```

.. note::

    Depending on your configuration of ``tcpdump``, this script may require ``sudo`` privileges to read traffic across
    your network device.

> After both executions are done, run the python script to generates a graph similar to the one below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After both executions are done, run the Python script to generate a graph similar to the one below.
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ export FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE="no_intraprocess_configuration.xml"
    $ sudo bash generate_discovery_packages.bash ~/ros2_foxy/install/local_setup.bash
    $ sudo bash generate_discovery_packages.bash ~/ros2_foxy/install/local_setup.bash SERVER
    $ python3 discovery_packets.py

.. image:: figures/discovery_packets.svg
    :align: center

> This graph is the result of an specific example, the user can execute the scripts and watch their own results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This graph is the result of a specific run of the experiment. The reader can execute the scripts and generate their own results for comparison.
```

> It can easily be seen how the network traffic is reduced when using *Discovery Service*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can easily be seen that network traffic is reduced when using the discovery service.
```

The reduction in traffic is a result of avoiding every node announcing itself and waiting a response from every other

> node in the net.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node on the network.
```

This creates a huge amount of traffic in large architectures.

> This reduction from this method increases with the number of Nodes, making this architecture more scalable than the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reduction from this method increases with the number of nodes, making this architecture more scalable than the
```

> simple one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple Discovery Protocol approach.
```

> Since *Fast DDS* v2.0.2 the new Discovery Server v2 is available, substituting the old Discovery Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new discovery server v2 is available since *Fast DDS* v2.0.2, replacing the old discovery server.
```

> In this new version, those nodes that do not share topics will not know each other, saving the whole discovery data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this new version, those nodes that do not share topics will automatically not discover each other, saving the discovery data
```

required to connect them and their endpoints.

> Notice that this is not this example case, but even though the massive reduction could be appreciate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The experiment above does not show this case, but even so the massive reduction in traffic can be appreciated
```

> due to the hidden architecture topics of ROS 2 nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
due to the hidden infrastructure topics of ROS 2 nodes.
```
